# Kookaberry Graphing Apps
This is a repository of pre-coded apps used in conjunction with datalogging and graphing of logged data for use with the Kookaberry micro-computer.

## Graphing
These apps assist in visualising the data that has been collected and stored by other Kookaberry apps in CSV (Cooma Separated Variables) files.

This repository includes the following:
- **_GraphCSV** - Lists CSV files in the Kookaberry's root file folder, and then processes the chosen file to produce a chart on a web page that can be viewed using a web browser.
  - The CSV data is presumed to have categories in column 1, then numerical data.
  - The html file requires JavaScript libraries stored on the Kookaberry in the c3d3 folder. 
  - To obtain the app and the required JavaScript files, download the _GraphCSV.zip file and extract the contents into the Kookaberry.
  - View a more complete description here: https://learn.auststem.com.au/app/graphcsv-2/

## Radio Datalogging
These apps receive radio messages generated by apps that sense and collect data.

Included are
- **ListenLog** - This app is used in conjunction with other Kookaberry apps developed for AustSTEM lesson plans.  It listens for radio messages, identifies the lesson report format, and logs any messages received in the identified format.
  - The complementary lesson plan apps are: **CountMe** and **BalanceMe**
  - The logging file format is determined from the first received valid lesson ID
  - If no lesson ID is received, a default format is applied.
  - The name of the logging file is *ListenLog.CSV* and is stored in the root folder of the Kookaberry's file storage system.
  - The library module *Kapputils.mpy* is required to be in the Kookaberry's *lib* folder.
  - See the description here https://learn.auststem.com.au/app/listenlog/
  - The datalogging CSV files may also be processed and viewed by **_GraphCSV** described below.
- **SenseRx** - This app listens to the Kookaberry's radio, and displays the messages received.
  - The app records what it receives to file in SenseRxLog.csv in the root directory
  - It is intended to be used with the SenseXXX apps that measure and log various sensors
  - It also accommodates the STELR sustainable housing kit apps.
  - The app also relays data via UART1 for outboard applications such as Node-Red.
  - Time synchronisation messages are sent to complementary sensing apps.
  - Time can be set by a USB-tethered PC, or from a computer communicating over UART1 in the string format {[YYYY,MM,DD,HH,MM,SS]}.
  - The library module *Kapputils.mpy* is required to be in the Kookaberry's *lib* folder.
  - See the description here https://learn.auststem.com.au/app/senserx/
  - Complementary apps are designated **SenseXXX** where *XXX* is replaced by the sensor name.
  - The CSV file generated is very sparse, separating the various sensor types into separate columns.  The format is shown below.
```
The CSV file column layout is as follows:
Column    Item
1    Date and time string
2    Kookaberry ID
3    Sensor Identification
# Atmospheric measurements
4    Ambient Temperature degC
5    Probe Temperature degC
6    Humidity %
7    Pressure hPa
8    Windspeed kph
9    Precipitation mm
10    CO2 ppm
11    VOC ppb
12    PM2.5 particulates ug/m3
13    PM10 particulates ug/m3
# Light measurements
14    Light level Lux
15    UV Index
# Fluid measurements
16    Moisture level %
17    Total dissolved solids ppm
18    Fluid turbidity JTU (Jackson Turbidity Units)
19    Alkalinity pH
# Physical measurements
20    Velocity m/sec
21    Acceleration m/sec2
22    Angle degrees
23    Distance metres
24    Weight kgs
# Electrical measurements
25    Voltage Volts
26    Current Amps
27    Resistance ohms
28    Power Watts
29    Energy Watt-hours
30    Frequency Hz
# Other
31    Generic Analogue 1 %
32    Generic Analogue 2 %
33    Generic Numeric decimal
34    T1 probe temperature degC (additional for STELR app)
35    T2 probe temperature degC (additional for STELR app)
36    T3 probe temperature degC (additional for STELR app)
37    Time in seconds
```

